README.md, before:

# AutoRAG-Live

Disagreement-driven, self-optimizing RAG system.

![CI](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/rajatsainju2025/autorag-live/ci.yml?branch=main)
![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-green)
![Coverage](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://gist.githubusercontent.com/rajatsainju2025/autorag-live-coverage/raw/coverage.json)

## Concept
Tri-view retrieval (BM25, dense, hybrid) + disagreement metrics drive data augmentation and a small reranker. A simple policy only accepts changes that improve eval metrics.

## Architecture (Mermaid)
```mermaid
flowchart TD
	Q[Query] --> R1[BM25]
	Q --> R2[Dense]
	Q --> R3[Hybrid]
	R1 & R2 & R3 --> D[Disagreement Engine]
	D --> A[Augmentation: rewrites, negatives, synonyms]
	A --> Re[Small Reranker]
	Re --> P[RAG Pipeline]
	P --> E[Auto-Evals]
	E -->|accept if improved| Store[(runs/models)]
```

## Quickstart
1. Create env and install deps
```bash
conda create -n autorag-live python=3.10 -y
conda run -n autorag-live pip install poetry
conda run -n autorag-live poetry install
```
2. Disagreement report
```bash
conda run -n autorag-live poetry run python -m autorag_live.cli disagree --query "the sun"
```
3. Eval
```bash
conda run -n autorag-live poetry run python -m autorag_live.cli eval --suite small
```
4. Dashboard
```bash
conda run -n autorag-live poetry run streamlit run app/streamlit_app.py
```

## CLI Cheatsheet
- `autorag disagree --query "..." --k 10 --report reports/run_YYYYMMDD.html`
- `autorag eval --suite small`
- `autorag optimize --queries "sun" "sky"` (auto-tune hybrid weights with acceptance policy)

## Roadmap
- FAISS/Qdrant adapters, bandit hybrid tuning, LLM judges, PyPI release.

Commit message:

fix: dependency management and Python version compatibility
- Install missing omegaconf and hydra-core dependencies to fix import errors
- Install typer dependency required for CLI functionality
- Add Python 3.10+ requirement warnings to README and installation docs
- Create compatibility utility module with version checking and warnings
- Fix critical infrastructure issues preventing development workflow

Fixes: Import 'omegaconf' could not be resolved, Import 'typer' could not be resolved
Impact: Enables test execution and development environment setup

README.md, after:

# AutoRAG-Live

Disagreement-driven, self-optimizing RAG system.

![CI](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/rajatsainju2025/autorag-live/ci.yml?branch=main)
![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-green)
![Coverage](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://gist.githubusercontent.com/rajatsainju2025/autorag-live-coverage/raw/coverage.json)

## Concept
Tri-view retrieval (BM25, dense, hybrid) + disagreement metrics drive data augmentation and a small reranker. A simple policy only accepts changes that improve eval metrics.

## Architecture (Mermaid)
```mermaid
flowchart TD
	Q[Query] --> R1[BM25]
	Q --> R2[Dense]
	Q --> R3[Hybrid]
	R1 & R2 & R3 --> D[Disagreement Engine]
	D --> A[Augmentation: rewrites, negatives, synonyms]
	A --> Re[Small Reranker]
	Re --> P[RAG Pipeline]
	P --> E[Auto-Evals]
	E -->|accept if improved| Store[(runs/models)]
```

## Requirements

⚠️ **Python 3.10+ Required** - This project requires Python 3.10 or higher due to modern typing features and dependencies.

## Quickstart
1. Create env and install deps
```bash
# Ensure you have Python 3.10+
python --version  # Should be 3.10.0 or higher

conda create -n autorag-live python=3.10 -y
conda run -n autorag-live pip install poetry
conda run -n autorag-live poetry install
```
2. Disagreement report
```bash
conda run -n autorag-live poetry run python -m autorag_live.cli disagree --query "the sun"
```
3. Eval
```bash
conda run -n autorag-live poetry run python -m autorag_live.cli eval --suite small
```
4. Dashboard
```bash
conda run -n autorag-live poetry run streamlit run app/streamlit_app.py
```

## CLI Cheatsheet
- `autorag disagree --query "..." --k 10 --report reports/run_YYYYMMDD.html`
- `autorag eval --suite small`
- `autorag optimize --queries "sun" "sky"` (auto-tune hybrid weights with acceptance policy)

## Roadmap
- FAISS/Qdrant adapters, bandit hybrid tuning, LLM judges, PyPI release.
